A major change that was just beginning in the previous release of this
course was the migration from XML in your web application.
It started first by just not having XML in your Spring code,
and then other standards pushed for it as well.
More recent serverless specification have called
for not having a web.xml at all.
XML is often thought to be more complicated and,
at a minimum, is more error‑prone for copy/paste errors.
Not using XML though can fill a little like a blackbox.
And what I mean by that is you can start using it,
but not understand what's going on behind the scenes.
This often leaves developers confused about what's going on in
their application and how it's working and,
furthermore, left wondering what to do when something breaks.
The configuration of Spring MVC though,
regardless of whether we're using XML or not,
is broken down into four basic areas.
First, we have a POM file to download any of our dependencies,
and that's what we created using the start.spring.io starter initializer.
We then have a configuration section,
whether that is XML or Java configuration or using web.XML.
There's going to be a configuration section next, so don't worry about that.
The next section is our Java files, our controller,
possibly our configuration, our model tier.
That's all going to be done in Java code.
And the last section is our view.
It doesn't matter if we are doing REST services,
Java Server Pages, FreeMarker templates,
we're actually going to look at Thymeleaf in this course. As a side note, you
can use all of these in your application at the same time,
but we're going to focus on them one at a time and see how
this helps us navigate through our app. Let's look and see how this was configured in our application now.